Declarative UI as a programming paradigm.
Goal, see a JavaScript nested,
this is where it gets really fun,
we can have elements in here
in the content section,
we could totally put
sub-elements in there.
That would then show up,
hopefully, if we wrote the code,
as sub-elements nested on the DOM
tree on the list of elements, and
therefore it'd be inside, and that's where
we can expand how this is gonna work.
And we will go see a JS nested
list representation of your actual
DOM elements and content so
you can get semi-visual coding.
It's very contemporary emoji choice there,
right?
Via nested objects or arrays of info,
as we default to in UI Hobarts,
all functional components,
which is what we're gonna come to.
We can create these via functions
that produce them as the output.
For it to be guaranteed accurate and
not out of sync,
we need the data in JavaScript
to be the only source of truth.
That's gonna allow us to have a function
that runs through and produces
a representation in JavaScript, first, of
what's gonna show up with the actual data,
and know that there's nothing else that
could be showing up on here that is not
from this source of truth in JavaScript.
If you set up one way data binding,
that is a user can only affect data via
the handler, and then run the update
all the way through, otherwise,
it's not guaranteed to be reflective.
You could have things here that maybe
have come through our handler, or
things here that are from the user,
where in fact we want any user
action just to be a submission.
Imagine if the user wrote y here and
we were not filling that
through back to JavaScript?
Then this VDOM here would
not have our latest
update submission from the user of y.
Instead, we would just be left with
the text still being empty because we
have everything on the page being
dependent on what's in JavaScript data.
We're able to describe it in
full in JavaScript as a kind
of intermediate step before it then
gets rendered on the DOM itself.
Yeah, so
we literally take any change to the DOM,
we've said this multiple times today.
I just literally to wanna, honestly, these
notes are as much for me as anybody else.
So we literally take any
change to the DOM, e.g,
user action typing in letters in an input
field and immediately replace it.
Of course, as we said earlier,
we can handle this slightly differently
if we wanted to embrace this,
immediately replace it by sending
the info to a data store in JavaScript.
Let's even actually map
this out with some letter.
So we have tended to here, and
then the data flows in the JS DOM or
visual DOM,
convert that to the actual DOM.
That's what's happening here,
where we create our access to objects, and
it comes to the actual DOM.
We have semi-visual coding, our
JavaScript DOM or visual DOM content and
positioning on the page in JavaScript
is reflected in our actual view.
We declare, A,
what the page structure we want, and B,
how you want its content to depend on
data, and then it appears on the page.
Even an empty form field is a propagation
of data, or empty string in this case.
So our action from the user comes through,
changes our data via our handler, and
then we run our converter through.
But as we heard yesterday from Magic, yes,
although the data does flow this way,
think of this as being a pinpoint
submission of, precisely, please take this
new information and determine if you
want to update the data in JavaScript.
We get to define that in our handler.
Do not get involved in the automatic
re-propagation of that to the page
based on the permanent
description of that one-to-one
relationship between that data and
what we see.